# machine-learning-hotel-reservation
-Aimed to predict if a hotel reservation will be canceled by the customer or not<br />
-Developed and build models via SAS Viya, using various machine learning techniques<br />
CASE STUDY<br />
Tourism industry holds a big place in today’s world. Millions of people go on vacations and make reservations from variety of hotels. This also means that, there is a big economic return in the tourism industry. From car vales to pool maintenance staff, from chefs to concierges there are a lot of expenditure needs to be made to hire the qualified people and this means money. The money comes from the customers who books or makes reservation to that hotel and to get the full price from the customers the reservation shouldn’t be canceled. Cancelation of a reservation can lead to a money loss since there will be an empty room in the hotel and hotel managements make their plan for hiring people etc. according to how many people will stay at that hotel.
Using my best model which is forest method with Gini split and depth 50, we will be able to predict if a customer will cancel the reservation or not. This will allow hotel managements to book more than 1 customer to the same room and hotel managements should make up their own strategies if they want to book 5 customers to same room or 1 customer according to the model’s prediction. This way, hotel management will reduce the chance of a room being empty. This means that that, hotel will not make loss in the revenue rather will increase revenue compare to the booking strategies used before implementing my model.
To be able to use my model, hotel management will need to hire a data scientist who has a deep knowledge of statistical learning a machine learning. Data scientist should be able to perform my model using various tools such as SAS Viya or coding through a coding language such as Python. Data scientist should also have to have a deep knowledge and understanding about these tools to apply my model in the best way. According to the past customer data that the hotel will provide, data scientist should be able to interpret it in the best way to include in to the model. Features that are shouldn’t be included in the model, such as in our case reservation_status and reservation_status_date, must be excluded to avoid building bad models.
The better the model we build, the better we will provide a satisfactory customer service but there will of course be a little chance that our model will make mistake since it is not %100 perfect. Decreasing this chance of mistake will directly dependent on the model we build and how much we can enhance it. My best model’s area under ROC is 0.920 which is considered to be outstanding. I think applying my model to, hotel managements marketing and business strategy, will bring a huge benefit and will result in a increase in the revenue.
